unique_sdk/docs/api_resources/message_execution.md, before:

# Message Execution API

The Message Execution API tracks and manages long-running message operations.

## Overview

Track execution progress for operations like:

- Deep research
- Complex analysis
- Multi-step workflows
- Long-running tasks

## Methods

??? example "`unique_sdk.MessageExecution.create` - Create execution tracker"

    Create a message execution tracker.

    **Parameters:**

    - `messageId` (str, required) - Message ID to track
    - `type` (Literal["DEEP_RESEARCH"], required) - Execution type

    **Returns:**

    Returns a [`MessageExecution`](#messageexecution) object.

    **Example:**

    ```python
    execution = unique_sdk.MessageExecution.create(
        user_id=user_id,
        company_id=company_id,
        messageId="msg_a0jgnt1jrqv143uzr750waxw",
        type="DEEP_RESEARCH"
    )
    ```

??? example "`unique_sdk.MessageExecution.get` - Get execution status"

    Get the current execution status for a message.

    **Parameters:**

    - `messageId` (str, required) - Message ID to get execution status for

    **Returns:**

    Returns a [`MessageExecution`](#messageexecution) object.

    **Example:**

    ```python
    execution = unique_sdk.MessageExecution.get(
        user_id=user_id,
        company_id=company_id,
        messageId="msg_a0jgnt1jrqv143uzr750waxw"
    )
    ```

??? example "`unique_sdk.MessageExecution.update` - Update execution progress"

    Update execution progress and status.

    **Parameters:**

    - `messageId` (str, required) - Message ID to update execution for
    - `status` (Literal["COMPLETED", "FAILED"] | None, optional) - Execution status
    - `secondsRemaining` (int | None, optional) - Estimated seconds remaining
    - `percentageCompleted` (int | None, optional) - Progress percentage (0-100)

    **Returns:**

    Returns a [`MessageExecution`](#messageexecution) object.

    **Example:**

    ```python
    unique_sdk.MessageExecution.update(
        user_id=user_id,
        company_id=company_id,
        messageId="msg_a0jgnt1jrqv143uzr750waxw",
        status="COMPLETED",
        percentageCompleted=100
    )
    ```

## Return Types

#### MessageExecution {#messageexecution}

??? note "The `MessageExecution` object represents execution tracking for a message"

    **Fields:**

    - `id` (str) - Unique execution identifier
    - `messageId` (str) - Associated message ID
    - `status` (Literal["PENDING", "RUNNING", "COMPLETED", "FAILED"]) - Execution status
    - `type` (Literal["DEEP_RESEARCH"]) - Execution type
    - `secondsRemaining` (int | None) - Estimated seconds remaining
    - `percentageCompleted` (int | None) - Progress percentage (0-100)
    - `positionInQueue` (int | None) - Position in execution queue
    - `createdAt` (str) - Creation timestamp (ISO 8601)
    - `updatedAt` (str) - Last update timestamp (ISO 8601)

    **Returned by:** `MessageExecution.create()`, `MessageExecution.get()`, `MessageExecution.update()`

## Related Resources

- [Message API](message.md) - Create and manage messages
- [Message Log API](message_log.md) - Track execution steps
- [Message Assessment API](message_assessment.md) - Evaluate results

Commit message:

feat(swot): adding execution bar (#865)
## 🚀 Summary
Refs: https://unique-ch.atlassian.net/browse/UN-16182

Briefly describe the changes introduced in this PR.

## ✅ Changes

- [x] Added feature / fixed bug / updated docs
- [ ] Refactored code / cleaned up
- [ ] Other (describe below)

## 🧪 Testing
<img width="741" height="478" alt="image"
src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cf102836-e177-4151-8ea5-70303f82c8f4"
/>

---------

Co-authored-by: ThePhilAz <rami.azouz@philico.com>
Co-authored-by: Rami Azouz <160010924+ThePhilAz@users.noreply.github.com>

unique_sdk/docs/api_resources/message_execution.md, after:

# Message Execution API

The Message Execution API tracks and manages long-running message operations.

## Overview

Track execution progress for operations like:

- Deep research
- Complex analysis
- Multi-step workflows
- Long-running tasks

## Methods

??? example "`unique_sdk.MessageExecution.create` - Create execution tracker"

    Create a message execution tracker.

    **Parameters:**

    - `messageId` (str, required) - Message ID to track
    - `type` (Literal["DEEP_RESEARCH"], required) - Execution type
    - `isQueueable` (bool, optional) - Whether the execution can be queued
    - `executionOptions` (dict | None, optional) - Additional execution options
    - `progressTitle` (str | None, optional) - Title to display for progress tracking

    **Returns:**

    Returns a [`MessageExecution`](#messageexecution) object.

    **Example:**

    ```python
    execution = unique_sdk.MessageExecution.create(
        user_id=user_id,
        company_id=company_id,
        messageId="msg_a0jgnt1jrqv143uzr750waxw",
        type="DEEP_RESEARCH",
        isQueueable=True,
        progressTitle="Researching..."
    )
    ```

??? example "`unique_sdk.MessageExecution.get` - Get execution status"

    Get the current execution status for a message.

    **Parameters:**

    - `messageId` (str, required) - Message ID to get execution status for

    **Returns:**

    Returns a [`MessageExecution`](#messageexecution) object.

    **Example:**

    ```python
    execution = unique_sdk.MessageExecution.get(
        user_id=user_id,
        company_id=company_id,
        messageId="msg_a0jgnt1jrqv143uzr750waxw"
    )
    ```

??? example "`unique_sdk.MessageExecution.update` - Update execution progress"

    Update execution progress and status.

    **Parameters:**

    - `messageId` (str, required) - Message ID to update execution for
    - `status` (Literal["COMPLETED", "FAILED"] | None, optional) - Execution status
    - `secondsRemaining` (int | None, optional) - Estimated seconds remaining
    - `percentageCompleted` (int | None, optional) - Progress percentage (0-100)
    - `progressTitle` (str | None, optional) - Title to display for progress tracking

    **Returns:**

    Returns a [`MessageExecution`](#messageexecution) object.

    **Example:**

    ```python
    unique_sdk.MessageExecution.update(
        user_id=user_id,
        company_id=company_id,
        messageId="msg_a0jgnt1jrqv143uzr750waxw",
        status="COMPLETED",
        percentageCompleted=100,
        progressTitle="Research complete"
    )
    ```

## Return Types

#### MessageExecution {#messageexecution}

??? note "The `MessageExecution` object represents execution tracking for a message"

    **Fields:**

    - `id` (str) - Unique execution identifier
    - `messageId` (str) - Associated message ID
    - `status` (Literal["PENDING", "RUNNING", "COMPLETED", "FAILED"]) - Execution status
    - `type` (Literal["DEEP_RESEARCH"]) - Execution type
    - `secondsRemaining` (int | None) - Estimated seconds remaining
    - `percentageCompleted` (int | None) - Progress percentage (0-100)
    - `isQueueable` (bool) - Whether the execution can be queued
    - `executionOptions` (dict | None) - Additional execution options
    - `progressTitle` (str | None) - Title to display for progress tracking
    - `positionInQueue` (int | None) - Position in execution queue
    - `createdAt` (str) - Creation timestamp (ISO 8601)
    - `updatedAt` (str) - Last update timestamp (ISO 8601)

    **Returned by:** `MessageExecution.create()`, `MessageExecution.get()`, `MessageExecution.update()`

## Related Resources

- [Message API](message.md) - Create and manage messages
- [Message Log API](message_log.md) - Track execution steps
- [Message Assessment API](message_assessment.md) - Evaluate results
